zero-one has a long history of art and
technology running a Biennale in San
Jose and Silicon Valley for a very long
time since their early 2000s and we're
super honored to be working with them on
a more consistent basis as they're
living within grey area and we get to
meet and help incubate all of this
cultural exchange that we just touched
on in the last panel so I'm really
excited to hand the mic over to shamsher
Burk the executive director of 0-1
as everyone is getting settled just a
few words of thanks to to gray area to
barrages that the whole team here for
welcoming us into this experience we're
really proud community partners on the
festival and really excited to be
co-locating here with grey area now as
of late working in the incubator space
ourselves upstairs and we've been
working this week during our amplify
program with international artists
giving them a taste of the bay area
scene and doing some peer mentorship
activities symposium and so on so we're
all very excited to be here as part of
the festival all right well so Josette
kindly introduced zero one a little bit
and gave you a sense of where we were
coming from for those of you who don't
know us most of our history has been
down in San Jose centered in San Jose
and recently we've moved our work up to
San Francisco but really our work is
primarily happening abroad through the
American Arts Incubator program so
myself I'm chef chef Burke the executive
director and also the program director
for this partnership that we have with
the US Department of State's Bureau for
Educational and Cultural Affairs so the
American Arts Incubator has been
developing over about the past five
years as a new model for public
diplomacy you're probably familiar with
a more traditional mode of public
diplomacy where we sort of export our
artists and tour them around major
cities in other countries this is a
model in which we place an artist an
American artist for a month in one place
they deeply engage with the the local
community and with issues on the ground
and have what we think is a richer's of
cultural exchange through the experience
so American Arts Incubator
as a creative exchange program we see it
as something that builds builds
communities it instigates dialogue it
bolsters local economies and furthers
social innovation and it does that
through the application of new media art
projects that are community driven
derived from the participants in the
community itself and applied to a social
challenge or environmental challenge
that's relevant to that community
anything from environmental health to
gender equality to youth empowerment and
each of these artists will tell you a
little more about what they were
addressing in their home country so this
past spring we traveled to Korea South
Korea to Turkey to Nepal to Mexico to
South Africa and had incubators in each
of those places at the end of those
incubators we selected one international
participant to come back to join us for
a 10 day long professional development
experience here which we call amplify so
these are the artists that were you're
seeing before you so we'll take a minute
to have them introduce themselves if you
can share your name the city and country
where your incubator took place the
social challenge you addressed in a
brief description of your project that
you prototype please hi I'm Mindy from
South Korea
I took participating in a AI program in
Gwangju with Lauren McCarthy and what
project was about what happened what
social inclusion will happen is
personally with home hello everyone I'm
roastin Bhattacharya I'm from Nepal
Kathmandu I took part in AI incubator
and Nepal Kathmandu with Jennifer berry
and our social chalice was a woman
empowerment we focus on sexual health
and mental hygiene hello everybody this
is a metro stamp from Istanbul Turkey
I'm set designer and digital artist our
social challenge in Turkey with American
Arts Incubator amplify was gender
equality
woman empowerment we created work in
terms of these situations hi everyone
I'm Reginald uncle echo City where I'm
from South Africa I took part in the AI
incubator program in Durban where we
created an augmented reality comic book
the focus of the workshop was on the
focus on over of the focus of the
workshop was on youth empowerment and we
chose to focus on environmental issues
hi everybody i'm aloha from is algo
mexico and i'm a participant of a i
mexico and i work with with the uses of
the new media and the virtual reality to
spread the cultural heritage of mexico
welcome everyone
so I was really resonating at the
opening last night which it sounds like
most of you are attending with comments
that I that undress was making around a
vision or a utopic vision even for a
world beyond nation-states and the role
that art and culture has to play in
helping us imagine that world and that
you know really struck a chord with me
having done this work over these past
few years and and this week working with
these artists the value of cultural
exchange in that process of bringing
stories to light and making them real
and exchanging those stories across
borders is a very powerful thing we
witness it firsthand I mean it has me
thinking more broadly about the analogy
that can be made I think between travel
cultural exchange and an immersive
experience or immersive designs what we
might have to learn from those things
you know this is something many of us
are probably familiar with you know when
we travel we get a sense of entering a
parallel reality our senses are
saturated we experience a sense of
wonder and magic often there's there's a
social adventure to the process of of
traveling and and engaging with
different cultures and I think these are
things that but that are common between
cultural exchange and immersive
experience so I think there's there's a
really nice tie-in there so I think to
hear a little bit more about the the
projects that you all have designed I'd
love if you could comment on how
immersive design has has influenced or
taken a played a role in the development
of your project could be your AI project
or another project from your background
so in South Africa we created an
augmented reality comic book centered
around a South Africa's first black
female superhero by the name of Nam fula
she represents the spirit of resilience
that lives in all of us and part of it
was trying to change how people perceive
the hero and the idea that the hero
lives within all of us and it's not
something outside of us
the way in which emerging media kind of
influence how things worked out it
changed how people interact with the
space that was really cool to see and
there's some wonder when emerging
technology and traditional art meet it
becomes this magic almost and you see it
in the people's faces as they interact
with your piece and they're just
wondering how all of this is working you
know that was very interesting and so we
started off with a 2d character we
further developed it after the first
prototype we've we've turned it into a
3d character just cuz it has the
opportunity to go different avenues just
in even in terms of like making a 3d a
3d print of the figurines or gamifying
the narrative in unit C or unreal
it could take many forms and has
different legs definitely in Mexico we
develop and we develop device
interactive device to show a 3d
printings that we that we made with the
3d scanning and we have the experience
to make some 360 videos to - to make an
experimental virtual reality
environments to show the cultural
manifestations in the indigenous context
Turkey has been dealing with lots of
changes in especially last hundred years
and we choose a story written 100 years
ago late ottoman era so it was late less
times of ottoman era the story was
written like hundreds a hundred years
ago in 1917 and it was the story about a
ten-year-old girl and she was forced to
marry in early ages and we tried to
create a amp
the feeling what has changed in hundred
years and what's turkey standing still
and the story was about the girl like
forced to marry as I said she believed
if she passes under the rainbow her
wishes come true so she runs and she
passes under the rainbow in the story
and she transforms into a boy so she
feels she will be more free more equal
so we tried to create why a ten-year-old
girl wants to transform into a boy so
are the girls still the same in same
conditions in east of Turkey like
southeast of Turkey what's happening so
we try to create interactive
installation with gesture recognition
software's like game engines and we
created a room with sound design and 3d
design like a shadow of the girl and the
user between so same things were
happening to the user one see here
walking around in the room so it was
like experimental room I come from a
Nepal which is the country where female
are still treated as a second class
citizen traditional norms and values are
keeping us as a subordinated group and
my country menstruation is taken as
taboo and talking about sexual health is
a big no nobody talks about that nor
parents no teacher aware student and
kids about it so we come up with the
with the idea of how to make them aware
and how to make them comfortable talking
about sexual health and menstrual
hygiene we use illustrator and quicker
just to create a booklet that was
related with sexual education and how to
take care of your vagina how to know
more about menstrual hygiene and at a
time we created an environment
ambience where you have to enter to a
door and when you interact and you'll
realize that's actually vagina where you
have enter from so many people felt like
rebirth and the thing was really
interesting because everybody was now
open to talk about vagina sexual health
mention and like it was really good
do you work like that and now from
amplify we have we are learning
technology how to merge science and art
together so I think it will be a
holistic environment and people who
learn a lot we will we are planning to
create an ambience where teacher parents
they will be able to teach their kids
and student by letting them experience
by themselves with technology earth and
so after the AAI
workshop I started a new project which
is called Ellis in here Kwangju which is
a city I was born and raised actually
Kwangju have been through a lot of
historical events including quandary of
life uprising 1919 80s but the thing is
like alter generation has been
experienced about that historical events
but for younger generations to me it was
so in inexperience and it's a history
basically so we just learned from that
from the textbook so I was asking like
oh we have an in emotionally
disconnected to each other so we got to
talk about like that so what if I
actually what if I choose to what if I -
if I were there in the history curled
event in the middle of historical event
or what if I choose to react run or
fighting for them like all the like
Hwang Geum rising is actually basically
a protest against of government violence
so to me it is a
it is also history but it's feels like
that tragedy keeps happens and get
repeated in a various way like imagine
think about the social bullies or like
or discriminations
or framing people or judging people it's
basically the violence mechanism of
violence is all the same so I wanted to
set the another world which is buried on
on line which is called wonderland with
diluted with the violence of the Red
Queen so you can actually meet the
people who actually suffered the
historical events you can hear the
audience can reach out to the online and
you can hear the voice of who actually
experienced that history and once the
like click or the views reach out on the
points you can actually that character
like mad hunters or rabbit just pops up
into this into the city like historical
spots yeah and at the end at the definer
performance you can you can actually the
audience the Ellis can actually
participate into the protoss cult which
is called mad tea-party so you can be
actually experienced so we can't be
connected each other so immerse thanks
Benji thank you everyone
so there's there's some really amazing
things that have come out in this
conversation drawing on the theme of
immersive design and experiential space
that we're not explicit to you know the
way we set up these exchanges obviously
we're doing you know work with new media
across borders we're doing it to address
real world social and environmental
challenges but we weren't thinking
necessarily that immersive design was a
focus so in our conversations it's
what's been really interesting for me
and and I think has made a strong
impression on the group is this sense
that in each of your projects they're
they're elements that have been quite
powerful moving that
that happened to be immersive there's
there's an immersive quality to each of
them whether it's the the rite of
passage of passing through a vagina and
and finding yourself in a new space to
look into sexual health in a new way or
experiencing you know a new comic book
hero that you've never seen sort of fill
fill space and move off the page and
become a part of your world this is
really really interesting that that
these qualities immersive qualities tend
to be the ones that are actually most
resonant so I don't know if any of you
would like to speak at all anymore about
maybe share a story of someone
interacting with your work or an
audience experience that it was
memorable to you and how you saw people
interacting with your work so one thing
I think I touched on this earlier was
just this idea of how it seemed like
magic to a lot of people how this flat
plane could turn into this immersive 3d
space all of a sudden a lot of people
quite intrigued with how it even works
but then after a while they just get
over that and they just in this joyous
state of like wow what is this
how do like yeah I don't know what else
to say for me the mixture of the
emerging technologies and the arts are
the most powerful tools to to talk about
those social social problems and I think
that a we can change our context with
these tools
for me like immersive design is
basically you can't just anticipate or
we can't imagine how audience will react
so that was quite big challenge for me
as an yeah as a part of who make makes
immersive the order so one of my piece
was so funny to watch like everyone
reacts differently like like you never
imagine you just don't have any idea how
to react so this is quite challenging
thing I think since I said that like
talking about sexual health vagina or
anything is not so common so we were
really scared how people gonna react but
we took a risk and it was really fun to
see that people actually were enjoying
that they were more comfortable to be
inside the be inside and vagina and
interacting to the booklet that that was
like we created a never-ending booklet
and they were so enjoying that to see
that so like it really inspired me to
work on more so to create a fun learning
area where people can learn enjoy at a
time without getting bored so I'm loving
the idea of in merge you fart something
really good and something really
powerful in our project in Turkey it was
set for the user because there was no
exit from the like happy side as the
story like the dreamy side of the story
there were no exit from the room
so the user had to exit from the dark
side what happens to I share like she
has to marry as like child bride so what
she faces true with like empathy of the
shadows reacting screen so it was nice
to use like creating yeah like waking up
project and how are you immersive art is
also like I can avoid the blocks of
censorship going on in Turkey we can
speak out lots about the government and
we can speak out loud
LGBT rights so but I believe I can use
it like very secretly like a censorship
internet like getting rid of censorship
with creating some AR areas space
another thing that's I think notable
about about this kind of work that had
tends to be collaborative and bring
people together from different
disciplines to create immersive
experiences that it's inherently
interdisciplinary and that also I think
is a really powerful quality of this
kind of collaboration so we're coming up
on time but I really want this to be an
introduction to you all and to encourage
you to come and talk to all of us and
especially our visiting artists over the
next few days they have lots more
stories to share each of them were
participants in one team project during
their incubator there were three other
teams in each incubator as well and and
each of those teams took a different
take created a different project that
address the social challenge so there's
some really interesting stories to
assess out through conversation with
them so thank you all for your time and
I look forward to more conversation
[Applause]